In the previous video, we already learn about
violation protect and shutdown,
next in this video, we are going to learn about violation
restrict.
Remember that protect and restrict is same,
the only differences is, if we use violation
protect, the security violation count will
never increase, but if we use violation restrict,
the security violation count will increase.
Okay let’s just start.
In this case, I will add 1 more server, let’s
say this is server 4, and then connecting this
server to the switch, here we can see that
the interface is fa0/5.
So we will configure port security with violation
restrict in fa0/5.
Let’s start, go to interface fa0/5,
and then switchport port security to enable port
security.
Okay here we can see that we get an error
“command rejected, fa0/5 is dynamic port”.
Remember that we need to change the mode to
access first before configuring port security.
So here switchport mode access, and then switchport
port-security again.
Okay here we can see that we don’t get an
error anymore.
Next let’s configure mac address to sticky,
configure maximum to 1 and violation restrict.
Okay now we have done configuring port security
on fa0/5.
Let’s check it, do show port-security interface
fa0/5.
Here we can see port security is enable, violation
restrict, and sticky mac address is still 0.
This is means that server 4 is not registered
yet.
Let’s send a packet from server 4, but before
that, we need to configure an ip address on
server 4 first.
Let’s say the ip address is 192.168.1.6,
now let’s try to send packet from server 4
to server 1.
Success, server 4 to server 3, also success.
Now let’s test the port security, unplug
the cable from server 4 and plug the cable
to the hacker.
The light is still orange, click fast forward
time, okay here already green.
Let’s test send a packet from hacker to
server 3, the result is failed, test again,
still failed.
Let’s test from hacker to server 1, failed,
test again, still failed.
Okay, now pc hacker can not send any packet
to anywhere.
But here the light is still green, this is
means that fa0/5 is not shutdown.
So remember that restrict is same as protect,
the interface will not shutdown but the packet
will be blocked.
Now let’s check port security interface,
do show port-security interface fa0/5.
Here we can see that security violation count
will increase based on how many time pc hacker
send a packet.
Now the security violation count is 4, let’s
try to send packet again from pc hacker,
Back to the switch, do show port security
interface fa0/5, here we can see that now
security violation count is 5.
So remember that security violation count
will increase based on how many time pc hacker
send a packet.
Okay I think enough for this video.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video